Now let's create our own custom class.
I'm going to just start typing and then after a while I will stop and explain everything that I'm doing.
Okay.
So I will define a class.
So we use a reserved keyword class.
You can see again you've seen this very often.
Now we have some letters that I've typed in in Python.
And then when I complete the word it changes color.
So it's a reserved keyword.
So class and I'm going to call this class model.
This will be the name of the class which is like a template.
Just like the name of this class was list.
Okay.
So there's a class called list.
And now there isn't a built in class in Python called model.
You can see that because I can just type model and we get an error message.
So I'm going to create a new type of class which is not built into Python.
I'm creating it right now and it is called model.
So now we need what's called a constructor method and this is how the instance is constructed.
So I will write def underscore underscore init underscore underscore.
It's really weird looking syntax.
But this is how a constructor initialization methods work in Python.
So underscore underscore two underscores init for initialization.
And then another two underscores okay.
And then in parentheses I'm going to write self num layers num units and name.
Now you can see that I'm defining a function here right.
Because I use the keyword def.
So that means we have the name of the function all of the inputs into the function.
And then of course we need a colon.
And now we can start writing a function.
So I will write self dot layers equals num layers, self dot units equals num units and self dot name
equals name.
And finally self dot weights equals ten.
Okay.
Let me uh visually organize this.
I like when my code has vertically aligned, uh, variable names and syntax like this.
Okay.
So here what I am doing is initializing an instance of this class and giving it all of these attributes.
So all of these are attributes.
So I write.
So these variables here are going to be the input into the function.
When I create this an instance of this class, we don't need to input self because it's implied that
self is the variable that we are creating.
So we are going to input three pieces of information.
The number of layers in our neural network, the number of units per layer in our neural network, and
the name of our neural network.
And then I'm defining a new variable here.
This is an instance of this class.
But it's a variable just like uh l let me get rid of this.
Here L is an instance of this class.
Now I'm going to make a new instance of this class internally inside this class definition this is called
self.
But later on we're going to give it a different name.
Okay.
And then here I'm defining attributes of this instance.
So every class when you create a new class it always needs a constructor method.
And it always looks like this def underscore underscore init underscore underscore.
And then in parentheses you're going to have the keyword Self.
This is the internal representation of the variable that we are creating.
The rest of these are optional.
It depends on the nature of the class that you are creating.
Okay, so now we can have some other methods that we define here.
So I will create a method called how many units.
And this takes in self.
And it's going to calculate a variable.
Total units equals self dot layers times self dot units.
So if we have this many units per layer and this many layers in the variable then how many total units
are there.
Well it's the product of those two okay.
And then I'm just going to print out some information.
There are total units units in this model period.
Okay.
So now this is a function.
It looks like a normal Python function that you already know how to create, but this function is embedded
inside or defined inside this particular class definition.
And what does that mean?
That means that this is a function that is like secret.
Only this particular class, or only instances of this class can actually access this function.
And I can even demonstrate that to you right now.
Okay.
So I'm going to run this cell over here.
So I created this class definition.
And now I'm going to try to type how many units.
And we see that this name is not defined.
Okay.
So I did define it here but it says undefined here.
So how can we actually use this.
Well we can create an instance.
So let's create an instance of the class.
So let's call this x for example.
And I'm going to write model.
And why is it model?
I say the word model because that's the name that I defined here.
So now when we first call a model or the the class name, the first thing that the code is going to
do is look for the constructor method and run the constructor method.
So that means we need to provide three inputs here.
You don't need to explicitly provide this first input.
It's always assumed that it is the variable self which refers to the variable itself.
Okay.
So how about let's create a model with eight layers and I don't know 17 units per layer.
And the name is going to be L.
Okay.
So now I run this code.
Nothing happened I can write X.
And this actually just gives me an address of where this variable is stored.
But now I'm going to write a period And how many units like this?
And now we see there are 136 units in the model.
Because when I call this method on this instance, then it called this function using self and self
dot layers and self dot units.
And then it printed out this statement over here.
And again just to show you when I tried to run this function here or this method, it is not actually
defined.
It's like private.
It's hidden.
Only instances of this class can actually access this function.
All right.
So that was one method I want to create a few more.
We're going to have def train the model and self that is going to take in something called x.
This is going to be data that we input into the model like a text for example or tokenized text.
So let's say self dot weights plus equals x.
So I'm adding whatever is this variable onto weights which is initialized to be ten.
And then it's just going to keep growing as I continually add numbers to it I will show you an example
of that.
And then here I'm going to return self dot weights.
So notice this function or this method does not actually return anything.
It just calculates some property of the model and prints it out.
So this just gives us some information.
This on the other hand is actually going to update the variable.
So it's going to change the value of self dot weights based on this calculation.
That gets called every time I call this method.
Okay.
And then the last method that I want to include here is also a reserved function.
So we have underscore underscore str for string underscore underscore and then self.
Okay.
And then here I will return this statement.
This is a self dot name.
Model like this.
Okay.
Very good.
So now I have created a class.
The name of the class is model.
It has four attributes that I define here.
When the model gets created or when an instance gets created.
And then I've defined three methods or three internal functions.
One of them actually returns something and updates the value.
And this one does some calculations and prints out some results.
Okay.
So now let's see I will run this code again.
That's not terribly interesting.
I can write str e the name of the model.
So now this is a special type of function that gets called whenever I call the function str.
Okay.
So str and then I input this instance of the class.
And this method gets returned.
Or sorry this text gets returned because this method is called.
Now what I'd like to do is explore this method a bit.
So self dot weights.
This is a attribute of the instance of the variable.
So I can write x dot weights.
And that's going to give me the number ten.
And now I can write.
Let's see.
Let me print this out.
And then I'm going to run x dot train the model.
And we're going to provide some input data.
And let's just say the number.
How about 13.
And then I will print x dot weights again.
Okay.
And remember when I call this method whatever is the input that gets added to self dot weights.
So to this property, like a variable of this instance called weights.
Okay so I run this and now we see ten 2310 because that's what the model was initialized to.
And then we add 23.
And then we print out or we add 13.
And then we print out the results again.
So I can keep running this code over and over again.
And you can see that the weights are growing okay.
And now what I'm going to do is run this code again.
And that just created a brand new instance of this model and that reset all of the parameters.
And why did it reset everything?
Because when I called model then all of this code got run and then that reset the weights to be their
initial value of ten.
So I hope that makes sense.
Uh, classes and object oriented programming is a bit tricky.
It's normally a more advanced topic in Python that you would learn about after having already studied
Python for several months, but in this case, we do use classes an awful lot with deep learning and
language modeling in particular.
All of the features of the model, like the weights, matrices, and information about training and
about regularization parameters and techniques.
Those are all attributes of the class that get defined here.
And then the various methods that we have in the class for the deep learning model correspond to basically
like multiplying matrices by inputs to evaluate the model, to do a forward pass through the model,
to do back propagation, and get the model to train all sorts of things we do with the methods inside
the class corresponding to these models.